Relying Party (#220)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/remote-flow.rst

Reviewer: These are some suggestions I was not able to add directly into the file:
- and any other information that it deems necessary to provide to the Relying Party the parameters necessary for better interoperability --> and any other information that it deems necessary to provide to the Relying Party for better interoperability
- "presentation_definition_uri_supported": false, --> "presentation_definition_uri_supported": false
- GET /request_uri --> do we need a random value?
- Wallet --> Wallet Instance
- "nonce": "2c128e4d-fc91-4cd3-86b8-18bdea0988cb" --> "nonce": "2c128e4d-fc91-4cd3-86b8-18bdea0988cb", 
-  The ``redirect_uri`` value MUST be used with an HTTP method GET by either the Wallet or the user-agent to redirect the User to the Relying Party in order to complete the authentication process. The specific entity that performs this action depends on whether the flow is Same device or Cross device. --> The ``redirect_uri`` value MUST be used with an HTTP method GET by either the Wallet Instance or the user-agent to redirect the User to the Relying Party in order to complete the process. The specific entity that performs this action depends on whether the flow is Same device or Cross device.

Author: > GET /request_uri --> do we need a random value?

see this thread and give contribution there if you can: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/issues/73

Author: thank you @giadas , done: 7ce851aa3531939293043b1226539c3a24f441b4

A High-Level description of the remote flow, from the User's perspective, is given below:

>   1. the Wallet Instance scans the QR Code and obtains the URL (Cross Device flow) or obtains directly an URL (Same Device flow);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  1. the Wallet Instance obtains an URL in the Same Device flow or a QR Code containing the URL in Cross Device flow;
```

A High-Level description of the remote flow, from the User's perspective, is given below:

>   1. the Wallet Instance scans the QR Code and obtains the URL (Cross Device flow) or obtain directly an URL (Same Device flow);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. the Wallet Instance scans the QR Code and obtains the URL (Cross Device flow) or obtains directly an URL (Same Device flow);
```

>   2. the Wallet Instance extracts from the payload the following parameters: ``client_id``, ``request_uri``, ``request_uri_methods`` and ``client_id_scheme``;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. the Wallet Instance extracts from the payload the following parameters: ``client_id``, ``request_uri``, ``state``, ``request_uri_methods`` and ``client_id_scheme``;
```

>   3. If the ``client_id_scheme`` is provided and set with the value ``entity_id``, the Wallet Instance MUST collect and validate the OpenID Federation Trust Chain related to the Relying Party. If the ``client_id_scheme`` is either not provided or is assigned a value different from ``entity_id``, the Wallet MUST establish the trust by utilizing the ``client_id`` or an alternative ``client_id_scheme`` value. This alternative value MUST enable the Wallet Instance to establish trust with the Relying Party, ensuring compliance with the assurance levels mandated by the trust framework;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. if the ``client_id_scheme`` is provided and set with the value ``entity_id``, the Wallet Instance MUST collect and validate the OpenID Federation Trust Chain related to the Relying Party. If the ``client_id_scheme`` is either not provided or is assigned a value different from ``entity_id``, the Wallet Instance MUST establish the trust by utilizing the ``client_id`` or an alternative ``client_id_scheme`` value. This alternative value MUST enable the Wallet Instance to establish trust with the Relying Party, ensuring compliance with the assurance levels mandated by the trust framework;
```

>   4. If ``request_uri_methods`` is provided and set with the value ``post``, the Wallet SHOULD transmit its metadata to the Relying Party's ``request_uri`` endpoint using the HTTP POST method and obtain the signed Request Object. If ``request_uri_methods`` is set with the value ``get`` or not present, the Wallet Instance MUST fetch the signed Request Object using an HTTP request with method GET to the endpoint provided in the ``request_uri`` parameter;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. if ``request_uri_methods`` is provided and set with the value ``post``, the Wallet Instance SHOULD transmit its metadata to the Relying Party's ``request_uri`` endpoint using the HTTP POST method and obtain the signed Request Object. If ``request_uri_methods`` is set with the value ``get`` or not present, the Wallet Instance MUST fetch the signed Request Object using an HTTP request with method GET to the endpoint provided in the ``request_uri`` parameter;
```

>   5. the Wallet verifies the signature of the signed Request Object, using the public key obtained with the trust chain, and that its issuer matches the ``client_id`` obtained at the step number 2;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  5. the Wallet Instance verifies the signature of the signed Request Object, using the public key obtained with the trust chain, and that its issuer matches the ``client_id`` obtained at the step number 2;
```

>   6. The Wallet Instance evaluates the requested Digital Credentials and checks the elegibility of the Relying Party in asking these by applying the policies related to that specific Relying Party, obtained with the trust chain;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  6. the Wallet Instance evaluates the requested Digital Credentials and checks the elegibility of the Relying Party in asking these by applying the policies related to that specific Relying Party, obtained with the trust chain;
```

  7. the Wallet Instance asks User disclosure and consent;

>   8. the Wallet Instance presents the requested information to the Relying Party along with the Wallet Attestation. the Relying Party validates the presented Credentials checking the trust with their Issuers, and validates the Wallet Attestation by also checking that the Wallet Provider is trusted;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  8. the Wallet Instance presents the requested information to the Relying Party along with the Wallet Attestation. The Relying Party validates the presented Credentials checking the trust with their Issuers, and validates the Wallet Attestation by also checking that the Wallet Provider is trusted;
```

  9. the Wallet Instance informs the User about the successfull authentication with the Relying Party, the User continues the navigation.

Below a sequence diagram that summarizes the interactions between all the involved parties.

.. figure:: ../../images/cross_device_auth_seq_diagram.svg
    :align: center

>     :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/ZLLRRnit4ttdhpZmz_3PXkCcwPi05t5SDvUqjMefoKCI61Ht9B6co2qlgxX5_tjdIN6zAbIqW21WoRcSSsQ6yo94wMFQ625JT3Pj5kI549SgEe-Zzu7y4MH04cBXlfQ3_mTyJvrM58xmln_rQXrVcaIYvJXQwLRQYAEFqXYAU6Cvl5MKOsptJHA7UY9NP6F980NP1fnbt-oMp8EsAqpvy25RTYH4mfFls6M2ZxJ0Z7mF1rPsUYMZTbOasHjqDC4j_POeH4ozYwGYDNmINFAAernSe2U4onJNP3bdTiRnr5FWx_8rNSj09xYu4595tSb8FOAEQe8hJ_sPnEbfO1SwFKKdJQBFTk4ICueEZrIXdBlN1znzWNcNl8Ql03kgD7-vlN8DuUOMh-VpALDej6SsEFxswVCJR7LSVxRAQCvmfvkpSRGpP5Hd-5GFDnJNhkdllk3Ju7GNr9esz4KqDEOf7bblXLXvbrg6x4Bj0JXh7dPofmbcQxS5Yra1jyowBnRVRYUuQSdcsx-r1sJRdi4u9GtaNYt45iLrfgJbeEYZ3eVNNwDdU3baAxraPkG3bjvjybcr9zk8mOdwwZ2VWEXJY5cyR3r8SKWL8Ks4NewLtGa97H1e5sTwCviB0DZM-hRUTRgXK3cpasnab8YEi-uNdd6sJjkO8zGM6I4UQnT9MTqBfcGh5zheg2a8Ce7-0ynNrtCu3-iYsjBhOeIvUfTyGQyiDVKCRl4hgLWrFeo_2DvHhVl14E9GIVQc7JzLhQHjq3gZ5NCSl3wGryk775p6v0bkEGPS1_-cP1kyfD4Sa-ezMtwO7eUJOf0cWz_IUIXdipZ33AJ7PhvoTgdzXfhnn2HHHSoja5yMv_NlkPavT6ZxYFXiInswzYwwUxB_yBHSxtJfQHMwMYuCOUzzAW6gquZWg5akOwHGxCyvUVaS6qnBbte6faC_Ix6g-GFnSVRaEwx3mVdL8VUIfux1DESZDBjKLvwQVggbmPiG4ddC--7RXHmWl_qunwpMSnI5uIaAeOpf44e8pra9hYFFPhoCthnwFNzrUttzipZiCH6uMfEwnsjdc1RUqGDUQjjmosKWxCMq-JTr8R0xisQN9qY1BSepanP6AzopOtdUjStd8uBHeSkjMSesBHKw5mBpDTczHwlHGHaNg86CqUj5YXGcK1cYNe9L7cPCSmAKOV04sKbj-bxeHosh84PolMzh0vJzjgE2ux9zaF9zSuBHZFPxvPjdvy_m_EbJtBpZolnnvCkQoSDzDC4wnZOWULEQr--w-KwvXl3dU0os-rkaBewPtD3UtjZM_SOm2zDHnfxQlwsSZeRT-7OssHLtVuMK_OVZdc1zWWg1eiP94Q7Wk3pakj8TsUAIW_HymnaIsna3-jhcsZYFa5JVTCjaClON_9SsvYy0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/ZLLRRnit4ttdhpZGz_3PXkCcwPi05t5SDvUqjMefoKCI21Ht9B6co2qlgxX5_tjdIUo2SWIqXc5Or5pEd3apyo94wMFQ6I5JT3RjLkI545SgEe_9-q1-0XcGX5Yvh-NX_m4_KgSLXGd-zxFUREDBaqYq74ShtKeRCVaeZQ68DvR3MqKvnlxG976e9t93DfOCKf1jm5aEpUx8F6YxmOmV7x9bHq985NKd8p6mX2S_iFSK7sc5EVaU6Qpiz4P6xMnbAaL3jQFiFJkQuex-I1GYPjv5Kf4QVWakUSMPBY_vcGB3pE4msyf0kBmSu_PuEXf2NNlgtoJEpW9xqDaPEidqVBOhbxY-w30M7g6SkzT7t7q1j4nUmmzGEXeg_UtksZM4spkyNYnc3BRHdd7ZvFkdpq-nrt7xsIgZESDID-Trj7DaLEVuL3qkTnIthlc2JwFJCgWjxUXBnLZcdNystgMMWRemw03EceT29z8KywtR8svfWDbohGVCoqVjOxVz5BSjsUpsI3kGRNiEuvGqa8aDB8kZjBOEEiPadUrHGiwLj8m2FOpnyUPhz6oRKx7I91TFFc3jtIw_3VPa6p4wKTz43XuGVGenSvojHyQEaIUaYT1hVCirT42W4WUps_b20C1-a47hNQSR2WCNx2GR6IMYorbhVJ3ErcaRSuIwMG0mAgkgeE8uahAw9rR9LgwqqL5J46G2_GVOhsuMS1xMHRHbGaHLm-1TyWMziTGCRt2htqd5aVFZzUG6T3JeusY8n_eyqh231O9V1YQbRT0wenLNF7fz8A_N3pcLZCaJtBg2F-w9sv9xz996DzNOikM7sKauBGPfElgjdOToDbDrR0IkdLrhlwFcKDa3fLaek4hS2Q__BEk85rNRHyHdMxhIjSlexicEazvMssiPqcgdG-1_Z-ylt1JUA9UTwT1oPUXm1-O4erD5G2MjgyZa5_iB1bS-rWQped7Fm7L0l_C7jdyYViwU_1ttwUXMq24hprF7O9gB2ar9rQ_IXX5hQV0cX4GUYtvqIyWHCjv-N60-zBkAml0KXQ9UDOOImdDMWkl8indVlpUlNYzUtTtS_2gEUqm5hhUaxl7QcOQTtj43NchRi2Gp4FRYilbtvaAWt1fsUO8KsA8igRHYcUAU7SiDqNbFrWL6XovBjxHjLZfq8GGMMxAWQkKrEYZZ0ZMGCNgzIapM52f3r6imo-D4Qaw0CYoU83kf3MiXRyRCWgZeUj-E0dWVo2EKKd1IJXnI_huvHJNH_V7wxjd5Cpn_-XItxxWpVqrykMLv5KocsCRO1YHlYhWz5RKlbMi8Vul7urzkqrpkwE0qxOV3oT0on3fB7MClwYl5TVxRkUjelCPlvzFIwKTNgimXJlfgn-sLgodKd7upYGKihew5sUYER77F0NiYmZaIsnd3ZMvpqvn7IAfNupgPmzjxI5ckyGN_IJlp3m00
```

Reviewer: I made the following chances to the flow:
1. remove the term “ User Authentication”
2. request_method_uri —> request_uri_method
3. add all the parameters in step 20
4. Extract —> extract
5. Validate Requested VP(s) —> Validate requested VP(s)
6. adjust activate/deactivate

  * - **1**, **2**

>     - The User requests to access to a protected resource, the Relying Party redirects the User to a discovery page in which the User selects the *Login with the Wallet* button. The Authorization flow starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The User requests to access to a protected resource of the Relying Party.
```

  * - **3**, **4**,
    - The Relying Party provides the Wallet Instance with a URL where the information about the Relying Party are provided, along with the information about where the signed request is available for download.
  * - **5**, **6**, **7**, **8**, **9**
    - In the **Cross Device Flow**: the Request URI is provided in the form of a QR Code that is shown to the User. The User frames the QRCode with the Wallet Instance that extracts  ``client_id``, ``request_uri``, ``state``, ``client_id_scheme`` and ``request_uri_method``. In the **Same Device Flow** the Relying Party provides the same information of the Cross-Device flow but in the form of HTTP Redirect Location (302). 
  * - **10**, 
    - The Wallet Instance evaluates the trust with the Relying Party.
  * - **11**, **12**

>     - The Wallet Instance checks if the Relying Party has provided the ``request_uri_method`` within its signed Request Object. If true, the Wallet provides its metadata in the to the Relying Party. The Relying Party returns a signed Request Object compliant to the Wallet technical capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The Wallet Instance checks if the Relying Party has provided the ``request_uri_method`` within its signed Request Object. If provided and it is equal to ``post``, the Wallet Instance provides its metadata to the Relying Party. The Relying Party returns a signed Request Object compliant to the Wallet technical capabilities.
```

  * - **13**

>     - When the Wallet capabilities discovery is not supported by RP, the Wallet Instance request the signed Request Object using the HTTP method GET.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - When the Wallet capabilities discovery is not supported by Relying Party, the Wallet Instance requests the signed Request Object using the HTTP method GET.
```

  * - **14**
    - The Wallet Instance obtains the signed Request Object.
  * - **15**, **16**, **17**
    - The Request Object JWS is verified by the Wallet Instance. The Wallet processes the Relying Party metadata and applies the policies related to the Relying Party, attesting whose Digital Credentials and User data the Relying Party is granted to request.
  * - **18**, **19**
    - The Wallet Instance requests the User's consent for the release of the Credentials. The User authorizes and consents the presentation of the Credentials by selecting/deselecting the personal data to release.
  * - **20**

>     - The Wallet Instance provides the Authorization Response to the Relying Party using an HTTP request with the method POST (response mode "direct_post").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The Wallet Instance provides the Authorization Response to the Relying Party using an HTTP request with the method POST (response mode "direct_post.jwt").
```

  * - **21**, **22**, **23**, **24**, **25** 
    - The Relying Party verifies the Authorization Response, extracts the Wallet Attestation to establish the trust with the Wallet Solution. The Relying Party extracts the Digital Credentials and attests the trust to the Credentials Issuer and the proof of possession of the Wallet Instance about the presented Digital Credentials. Finally, the Relying Party verifies the revocation status of the presented Digital Credentials.
  * - **26**

>     - The Relying Party provides to the Wallet a redirect URI with a response code to be used by the Wallet to finalize the authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The Relying Party provides to the Wallet Instance a redirect URI with a response code to be used by the Wallet Instance to finalize the on-going operation.
```

  * - **Id**
    - **Description**
  * - **1**, **2**
    - The User requests to access to a protected resource of the Relying Party.
  * - **3**, **4**,
    - The Relying Party provides the Wallet Instance with a URL where the information about the Relying Party are provided, along with the information about where the signed request is available for download.
  * - **5**, **6**, **7**, **8**, **9**

>     - In the **Cross Device Flow**: the Request URI is provided in the form of a QR Code that is shown to the User. The User frames the QRCode with the Wallet Instance that extracts  ``client_id``, ``request_uri``, ``state``, ``client_id_scheme`` and ``request_uri_method``. In the **Same Device Flow** the Relying Party provides the same information of the Cross-Device flow but in the form of HTTP Redirect Location (302). 

Reviewer 2: In the same device flow it is always the same URL contained in the QR-Code but which is opened by the browser (instead of using the camera). Then it is the operating system that "interprets" that URL and opens the Wallet Instance. There should be no 302 redirect

Author: done

>     - In the **Cross Device Flow**: the Request URI is provided in the form of a QR Code that is shown to the User. The User frames the QRCode with the Wallet Instance that extracts  ``client_id``, ``request_uri``, ``state``, ``client_id_scheme`` and ``request_uri_method``. In the **Same Device Flow** the Relying Party provides the same information of the Cross-Device flow but in the form of HTTP Redirect Location (302). 

Author: ```suggestion
    - In the **Cross Device Flow**, the Request URI is presented as a QR Code displayed to the User. The User scans the QR Code using the Wallet Instance, which retrieves a URL with the parameters ``client_id``, ``request_uri``, ``state``, ``client_id_scheme``, and ``request_uri_method``. Conversely, in the Same Device Flow, the Relying Party supplies identical information as in the Cross-Device flow, but directly through a URL.
```

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **client_id**
    - REQUIRED. Unique identifier of the Relying Party.
  * - **request_uri**
    - REQUIRED. The HTTPs URL where the Relying Party provides the signed Request Object to the Wallet Instance.
  * - **client_id_scheme**
    - OPTIONAL. The scheme used by the Relying Party for the client_id, detailing the format and structure and the trust evaluation method. It SHOULD be set with ``entity_id``.
  * - **request_uri_method**

>     - OPTIONAL. The HTTP method MUST be set with ``get`` or ``post``. The Wallet Instance should use this method obtain the signed Request Object from the request_uri. If not provided, the Wallet Instance SHOULD use the HTTP method ``get``. If provided, the Wallet Instance SHOULD provide its metadata within the HTTP POST body encoded in ``application/json``.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - OPTIONAL. The HTTP method MUST be set with ``get`` or ``post``. The Wallet Instance should use this method to obtain the signed Request Object from the request_uri. If not provided or equal to ``get``, the Wallet Instance SHOULD use the HTTP method ``get``. Otherwise, the Wallet Instance SHOULD provide its metadata within the HTTP POST body encoded in ``application/json``.    
```

Reviewer: Is the ``state`` missing?

Author: added as OPTIONAL according to RFC6749

2688d51182a4d12681f6e2ae56c7cbe98762dc37

            ],
            "limit_disclosure": "preferred"
          }
        },
        {

>           "id": "WalletAttestation",

Reviewer 2: Don't we still want to introduce the term Wallet Trust Evidence?

Author: we should introduce it in the defined term before

Author: moved to a new issue

>       - The Requested Digital Credential (one or more, if in format SD-JWT VC or MDOC CBOR)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - The requested Digital Credential (one or more, in format of SD-JWT VC or MDOC CBOR)
```

> The Relying Party MUST include a response code withing the redirect URI. The response code is a fresh, cryptographically random number used to ensure only the receiver of the redirect can fetch and process the Authorization Response. The number could be added as a path component, as a parameter or as a fragment to the URL. It is RECOMMENDED to use a cryptographic random value of 128 bits or more at the time of the writing of this specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Relying Party MUST include a response code within the redirect URI. The response code is a fresh, cryptographically random number used to ensure only the receiver of the redirect can fetch and process the Authorization Response. The number could be added as a path component, as a parameter or as a fragment to the URL. It is RECOMMENDED to use a cryptographic random value of 128 bits or more at the time of the writing of this specification.
```
